---
title: Kindling
layout: default
--- # Categories
- android
- technology
- thoughts
---

?I had an idea recently that I thought would make for an interesting Android app. Overall, it was not very original but the details are what made it different. I thought it would be interesting to write a short story reader app that would allow the user to purchase short stories by independent authors for some small amount, say under one dollar per story. The price could be specified by the author. The content format would either be open or closed based on the authors specification, meaning that if the authors wanted to protect their work tightly they could provide content that could only be viewed with the reader app, whereas other authors could allow their content to be used openly once paid for (an honor system). The authors could be anybody, but there would be a rating system to help separate the good from the not-so-good. Also, the "house" would get a cut of every story sold.



Sounds familiar doesn't it? Yes, it's basically the Amazon Kindle delivery system but minus the annoyances or restrictions (also minus the need to be a big time published author). The content you buy would be managed by you, though you could keep your story files on our server as a backup. I saw this as a place for new writers to get their work out to the public, and hopefully it would also bring some "big names" in at some point.



I cannot follow through with this idea.


No, it's not a technical problem. Every technical aspect of this idea is something I have done before or could do without much trouble. I could probably bring in some of my peers on this one too. So, what's the problem?



Patents.



Yes, my little idea would be squashed completely by either Amazon or Discovery Network, who holds a pile of ebook-related patents, including delivery and security methods. Oh, yeah, I could probably get away with it if I were to do all of this at no cost... maybe. Assuming that I would not get sued or told to cease and desist, I don't think ad revenue would make enough to cover the development and hosting costs. Also, being that I would not be able to pay the authors anything, the content would probably languish into mediocrity.


I guess to a certain degree that is what patents and licensing is all about; squashing out your competition.


Oh well. I will just have to keep thinking.
