---
title: Grails and ExtJS
layout: default
--- # Categories
- development
- extjs
- grails
- programming
---

go over the missing old plugin and what I am doing with mine... 
show some examples of its features...
go into the planned features...

I have been doing a lot of work with ExtJS lately in Grails projects so I was curious whether or not there was a Grails plugin for ExtJS. There <em>was</em> one, but it has long since died. I tried to find the source of the project or anything other than the bit of documentation given on the plugin description page, but could find nothing. So, I decided to write my own. 

Currently my sencha-extjs Grails plugin is ready for general production use; however, it does not integrate with the built-in ajax GSP tags. It does provided the full ExtJS library with a couple other nice features.

<ul>
<li>The selection of the integrated JavaScript library is based on your current environment. If you are in development mode, it will use the debug JavaScript files, otherwise it will use the minified production JavaScript files.</li>
<lil>It provides two GSP tags to simplify the bootstrapping of the ExtJS library. These are required to use the auto-library selection mentioned above.
</ul>

It makes using ExtJS in Grails projects much simpler, and less bulky since the library can now be shared across multiple projects. Let's create a simple project with the plugin.


create a test project
install plugin
create controller 
create simple view
add tags to layout
add hello world js to js file
run app

There are still some features I would like to add to this plugin.

It would be nice to have a Grails script to create the layout template for an ExtJS project.
It would be nice to have a Grails script to create a base JavaScript template.
It would be nice to modify the build such that the war would not include the debug parts of the library.

If you have any suggestions or if you are interested in using this plugin or contributing to it, please let me know.

As a final note, I am planning on doing a similar plugin for sencha touch, as I will be using that in a project soon.
